Getting commit access (#4246)
carbon-language/carbon-lang: docs/project/commit_access.md

# Commit access

<!--
Part of the Carbon Language project, under the Apache License v2.0 with LLVM
Exceptions. See /LICENSE for license information.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 WITH LLVM-exception
-->

<!-- toc -->

## Table of contents

-   [Overview](#overview)
-   [Getting access](#getting-access)
-   [Removing access](#removing-access)

<!-- tocstop -->

## Overview

> Commit access is what allows developers to merge PRs into the main
> [carbon-lang repository](https://github.com/carbon-language/carbon-lang/). It
> also gives the ability to [review, approve, and merge changes](code_review.md).

Reviewer: One larger and one smaller thing here...

First, I'd like to emphasize that commit access on Carbon is *not* required for contribution, and really encourage folks to contribute even without it. I've tried to add a paragraph to this effect, but happy for you to rewrite to suit.

A second small thing is that I think reviewing works even w/o commit access, so it's really just approving and merging?

```suggestion
First and foremost, commit access is **not required** for contributing to Carbon! Anyone can send a pull request with a change to Carbon. Very few parts of our process require commit access, and most development activity is exactly the same for folks with or without. This is an important feature of our GitHub workflow for us, and one we plan to keep.

The main thing commit access allows is for developers to merge PRs into the main
[carbon-lang repository](https://github.com/carbon-language/carbon-lang/). They still need review, and often a reviewer with commit access handles the merge. It
also gives the ability to [approve and merge changes](code_review.md).
```

Developers with commit access are not required to do reviews. It is granted as a
convenience in order to allow fixing PRs after approval, for example because the
review noted a minor typo, or because there is a conflict that the PR author
needs to resolve before merging.

> 

Reviewer: What do you think about skipping this paragraph? Not sure... But maybe the next paragraph (maybe with my suggestion) can suffice?

Author: In the past, every discussion I've had about commit access involved people mentioning they're not fully comfortable doing reviews. That's why it's the one thing I'd been focused on. Do you still want it removed?

(I don't think the next paragraph addresses the question)

Reviewer: Interesting! No, I think that's a good reason to keep it. Maybe some slight word smithing?

```suggestion
Note that developers with commit access are not required to do reviews or help with approving and merging PRs. It can still be useful to allow authors to fix trivial PR comments after approval and then merge their own PR, for example because the
review noted a minor typo, or to resolve merge conflicts.

```

> Developers with commit access are expected to make reasonable choices about when
> to review and approve PRs for others, and what changes to make to their own PRs
> without asking for another round of review.

Reviewer: Seems nice to give some guidance on what developers should be thinking about here:

```suggestion
Developers with commit access are expected to make reasonable choices about when
to approve or merge PRs for others -- generally, the change either needs to be trivially understood without context on the code in question (like a cleanup, typo fix, etc), or the developer should have reasonable context on the code in question. If in doubt, feel free to review but leave approving or merging for someone else.

Similarly, developers with commit access are expected to make reasonable choices about what changes to make to their own PRs
without asking for another round of review prior to merge, even after approval. And again, if in doubt, ask for review.
```

Author: Before:

> Developers with commit access are expected to make reasonable choices about when
> to review and approve PRs for others, and what changes to make to their own PRs
> without asking for another round of review.

After:

> Developers with commit access are expected to make reasonable choices about when
> to approve or merge PRs for others -- generally, the change either needs to be trivially understood without context on the code in question (like a cleanup, typo fix, etc),

Note in this section, I think you changed the focus from "when do you need review for changes to your own PRs" to "when do other PRs need review". I'm trying to adjust phrasing.

Author: Nevermind. I think I'm just confused by the emphasis here.

## Getting access

Contributors can request commit access based on their commit history. We want to
make sure that developers with commit access are reasonably familiar with the
style and structure of the codebase. Access will typically be granted when
developers have contributed several PRs and are expecting to continue making
more.

> Typically someone who has been doing reviews for a contributor will nominate,
> and contributors are encouraged to ask a reviewer to nominate if needed.
> Nominations will be reviewed by at least one lead, and a lead's approval will
> lead to access.

Reviewer: Maybe to just encourage folks to ask a bit more:

```suggestion
After a few non-trivial PRs are merged, contributors should ask a reviewer to nominate for commit access if they plan to keep contributing. Reviewers can also directly suggest and nominate someone.
Nominations need to be approved by at least one lead.
```

When approved, an invitation will be sent to join the
[Commit access team](https://github.com/orgs/carbon-language/teams/commit-access)
on GitHub. The invitation should cause a notification from GitHub, but it's also
possible to go to the
[invitation link](https://github.com/orgs/carbon-language/invitation) directly.
Access is granted when the invitation is accepted.

## Removing access

> We'll periodically remove commit access from contributors who have been idle for
> over 6 months. We'll use a combination of sources to determine what "idle"
> means, including whether a developer has been either sending or reviewing PRs.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll periodically remove commit access from contributors who have been idle for
over 6 months. We'll use a combination of sources to determine what "idle"
means, including whether a developer has been either sending or reviewing PRs. Developers should always ask for it to be restored if they plan to start contributing again or come back from a break. Any relevant past contributions will still apply and allow it to be restored trivially.

```

Exceptions. See /LICENSE for license information.
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 WITH LLVM-exception
-->

<!-- toc -->

## Table of contents

-   [Overview](#overview)
-   [Getting access](#getting-access)
-   [Removing access](#removing-access)

<!-- tocstop -->

## Overview

First and foremost, commit access is **not required** for contributing to
Carbon! Anyone can send a pull request with a change to Carbon. Very few parts
of our process require commit access, and most development activity is exactly
the same for folks with or without. This is an important feature of our GitHub
workflow for us, and one we plan to keep.

The main thing commit access allows is for developers to merge PRs into the main
[carbon-lang repository](https://github.com/carbon-language/carbon-lang/). They
still need review, and often a reviewer with commit access handles the merge. It
also gives the ability to [approve and merge changes](code_review.md).

Note that developers with commit access are not required to do reviews or help
with approving and merging PRs. It can still be useful to allow authors to fix
trivial PR comments after approval and then merge their own PR, for example

> because the review noted a minor typo, or to resolve merge conflicts.

Reviewer 2: I did not understand this paragraph. (For what it's worth, I think the rest of the text works fine without it.)

First sentence: is this saying
1) Commit access is not accompanied with a responsibility to do reviews or help with approving and merging PRs. (Developers with commit access are not required to [do certain things] _as a condition of their commit access_)
or
2) Reviews and approving or merging PRs can be done without the help of a developer with commit access. (Developers with commit access are not required _in order_ to [do certain things])

Second sentence: What are the consequences of this being useful? Is some particular action encouraged or discouraged, or some policy or advice we want to give here? How is this connected to what we said in the first sentence?

Also, *can* authors without commit access merge their own PRs after approval? I thought that merging PRs, even once approved, still requires commit access?

Reviewer: FYI, there was some discussion about this paragraph here: https://github.com/carbon-language/carbon-lang/pull/4246#discussion_r1729499088

And...
> Also, _can_ authors without commit access merge their own PRs after approval? I thought that merging PRs, even once approved, still requires commit access?

I believe they cannot -- and I believe enabling this is a primary motivation for granting commit access.

Author: Authors without commit access haven't ever been able to merge changes.

Also, recently actions became more restrictive for security reasons. I think in the past, a contributor only needed "approve and run" on their first PR. I'm not sure if there's _any_ threshold where "approve and run" is no longer needed now.

So the present state is that people without commit access require assistance in order to _both_ run actions _and_ merge commits.

Author: Note, rephrased the paragraph again.

Reviewer 2: Thank you! The new phrasing works for me.

Author: Sorry, one small edit, "smooth over" -> "ease" due to possible connotations.

Developers with commit access are expected to make reasonable choices about when
to approve or merge PRs for others. Generally, the change either needs to be
trivially understood without context on the code in question (such as a cleanup
or typo fix), or the developer should have some context on the code in question.
If in doubt, feel free to review but leave approving or merging for someone
else.

Similarly, developers with commit access are expected to make reasonable choices
about what changes to make to their own PRs without asking for another round of
review prior to merge, even after approval. And again, if in doubt, ask for
review.

## Getting access

Contributors can request commit access based on their commit history. We want to
make sure that developers with commit access are reasonably familiar with the
style and structure of the codebase. Access will typically be granted when
developers have contributed several PRs and are expecting to continue making
more.

After a few non-trivial PRs are merged, contributors should ask a reviewer to

> nominate for commit access if they plan to keep contributing. Reviewers can also

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
nominate them for commit access if they plan to keep contributing. Reviewers can also
```

Author: Done; note, also "can" on the line above.

directly suggest and nominate someone. Nominations need to be approved by at
least one lead.

When approved, an invitation will be sent to join the
[Commit access team](https://github.com/orgs/carbon-language/teams/commit-access)
on GitHub. The invitation should cause a notification from GitHub, but it's also
possible to go to the
[invitation link](https://github.com/orgs/carbon-language/invitation) directly.
Access is granted when the invitation is accepted.

## Removing access

We'll periodically remove commit access from contributors who have been idle for
over 6 months. We'll use a combination of sources to determine what "idle"
means, including whether a developer has been either sending or reviewing PRs.

> Developers should always ask for it to be restored if they plan to start

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Developers should always ask for commit access to be restored if they plan to start
```
(The intended antecedent of "it" is two sentences ago, which feels a bit distant.)

Also, is "should always" a bit strong here? Maybe "can" or "should" instead?

Author: Done, with "can"
